docs: add benchmarking reference section (#55)
charmed-hpc/docs: reference/performance.md

(reference-performance)=
# Performance

> Reference values for the [Charmed HPC Benchmarks](https://github.com/charmed-hpc/charmed-hpc-benchmarks/) running on Microsoft Azure are provided on this page. Steps for reproducing these results are available in the [benchmarking suite documentation](https://github.com/charmed-hpc/charmed-hpc-benchmarks/blob/main/README.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Performance values for the [Charmed HPC Benchmarks](https://github.com/charmed-hpc/charmed-hpc-benchmarks/) running on Microsoft Azure are provided on this page. Steps for reproducing these results are available in the [benchmarking suite documentation](https://github.com/charmed-hpc/charmed-hpc-benchmarks/blob/main/README.md). These results are intended to provided best-possible marks for performance to help guide tuning and identification of bottlenecks. Real-world performance may fluctuate depending on factors such as varying cluster workloads and resource contention.
```

> ## Method

Reviewer: Since the methods chosen are somewhat dependent on the metrics being used, it might make sense to have the metrics sections listed first, then methods, and then results.

Author: Agreed, I've rearranged these sections.

* Juju 3.6.3, ReFrame 4.7.4, Ubuntu 24.04, gcc 13.3.0, CUDA toolkit 12.0.140.
* Cluster deployed on Microsoft Azure:
  * One `Standard_NC4as_T4_v3` instance, equipped with an NVIDIA Tesla T4, chosen for GPU benchmarking.
  * Two `Standard_HB120rs_v3` instances, equipped with 200 Gb/s HDR InfiniBand, chosen for RDMA benchmarking.
  * All other instances are `Standard_D2as_v6`, the default size for Juju 3.6.3.

> * Results obtained with the following charm versions:

Author: Done but I've kept the one charm table as I think it's nice to have a single reference describing the full cluster under test. Let me know what you think.

:::{csv-table}
:header: >
: application, vm size, charm, channel, revision

`login`, 1x `Standard_D2as_v6`, sackd, edge, 13
`slurmctld`, 1x `Standard_D2as_v6`, slurmctld, edge, 95
`slurmdbd`, 1x `Standard_D2as_v6`, slurmdbd, edge, 87
`mysql`, 1x `Standard_D2as_v6`, mysql, 8.0/stable, 313
`nc4as-t4-v3`, 1x `Standard_NC4as_T4_v3`, slurmd, edge, 116
`hb120rs-v3`, 2x `Standard_HB120rs_v3`, slurmd, edge, 116
`nfs-share-client`, N/A - subordinate charm, filesystem-client, edge, 15
`nfs-share-server`, 1x `Standard_D2as_v6`, nfs-server-proxy, edge, 21
:::

> ## Metrics

Reviewer: Is there any leading information we could add about which metrics were chosen and why?

### Tesla T4 GPU

GPU single and double precision floating point performance is measured by the [gpu_burn](http://wili.cc/blog/gpu-burn.html) stress test, with [code modifications by the ReFrame developers](https://github.com/reframe-hpc/reframe/tree/v4.7.4/hpctestlib/microbenchmarks/gpu/src/gpu_burn), built using the CUDA toolkit.

### InfiniBand interconnect

> InfiniBand RDMA latency and bandwidth are measured by the [OSU Micro-Benchmarks](https://mvapich.cse.ohio-state.edu/benchmarks/) for MPI and the [Intel MPI Benchmarks (IMB)](https://github.com/intel/mpi-benchmarks). All benchmark runs are performed on two cluster compute nodes, one MPI process per node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
InfiniBand RDMA latency and bandwidth are measured by the [OSU Micro-Benchmarks](https://mvapich.cse.ohio-state.edu/benchmarks/) for MPI and the [Intel MPI Benchmarks (IMB)](https://github.com/intel/mpi-benchmarks). All runs are performed on two cluster compute nodes, one MPI process per node.
```

Point-to-point performance is measured with the OSU `osu_bw` and `osu_latency` benchmarks, as well as the IMB MPI-1 `PingPong` benchmark.

Collective performance is measured with the OSU `osu_alltoall` and `osu_allreduce` benchmarks, as well as the IMB MPI-1 `AllReduce` benchmark.

## Results

> The results presented are the best achieved by the benchmarking suite across all tests. This provides a high-water mark for performance to help guide tuning and identification of bottlenecks. Real-world performance may fluctuate depending on factors such as varying cluster workloads and resource contention.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The results presented are the best performance achieved by the corresponding metric across all tests. 
```

:::{csv-table}
:header: >
: metric, vm size, result, unit, note

Tesla T4 single precision, 1x `Standard_NC4as_T4_v3`, 4454, Gflops/s,
Tesla T4 double precision, 1x `Standard_NC4as_T4_v3`, 252, Gflops/s,
InfiniBand latency, 2x `Standard_HB120rs_v3`, 1.59, us, 1 byte transfer size
InfiniBand bandwidth, 2x `Standard_HB120rs_v3`, 196.06, Gb/s, 4 MiB transfer size
:::

> For comparison, Microsoft-published performance data for the `HBv3-series` is available [on the Azure website](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/hbv3-performance). For the `NCas_T4_v3` series, a discussion of benchmarking approaches is available in an [Azure blog post](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/blog/azurecompute/benchmarking-the-nc-a100-v4-ncsv3-and-ncas-t4-v3-series-with-nvidia-deep-learnin/3568823).

Reviewer: The benchmarking approaches blog post should potentially be in the Metrics section, since it doesn't include any performance values.

Author: My idea for this was to have a counterpart to the `HBv3-series` but `NCas_T4_v3` results don't appear to be available from an official source. The blog post was the closest I could track down.

I've gone ahead and removed the blog link rather than move it to Metrics. On second thought, we're using different benchmarks so the link may just confuse people. It might make sense to put back in when we expand the performance suite to include more comparable tests.

(reference-performance)=
# Performance

Performance values for the [Charmed HPC Benchmarks](https://github.com/charmed-hpc/charmed-hpc-benchmarks/) running on Microsoft Azure are provided on this page. Steps for reproducing these results are available in the [benchmarking suite documentation](https://github.com/charmed-hpc/charmed-hpc-benchmarks/blob/main/README.md). These results are intended to provided best-possible marks for performance to help guide tuning and identification of bottlenecks. Real-world performance may fluctuate depending on factors such as varying cluster workloads and resource contention.

## Metrics

> GPU performance and InfiniBand interconnect performance are measured on suitably equipped VMs to illustrate the ability of Charmed HPC to exploit the HPC capabilities of the cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GPU performance and InfiniBand interconnect performance are measured on suitably equipped VMs to illustrate the ability of Charmed HPC to leverage the HPC capabilities of the cloud.
```

GPU performance is measured for both single precision workloads, where speed and larger scale is preferred over numerical accuracy, and double precision workloads, where additional accuracy is required.

> Latency and bandwidth are measured for InfiniBand to determine how quickly a message can traverse the network and the network throughput. These metrics govern the ability of the cluster to run MPI, and other distributed memory, applications across nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Latency and bandwidth are measured for InfiniBand to determine how quickly a message can traverse the network,  as well as the network throughput. These metrics govern the ability of the cluster to run MPI, and other distributed memory dependent applications across nodes.
```

### GPU flops

GPU single and double precision floating point operations per second (flops) are measured by the [gpu_burn](http://wili.cc/blog/gpu-burn.html) stress test, with [code modifications by the ReFrame developers](https://github.com/reframe-hpc/reframe/tree/v4.7.4/hpctestlib/microbenchmarks/gpu/src/gpu_burn), built using the CUDA toolkit.

### InfiniBand interconnect latency and bandwidth

InfiniBand RDMA latency and bandwidth are measured by the [OSU Micro-Benchmarks](https://mvapich.cse.ohio-state.edu/benchmarks/) for MPI and the [Intel MPI Benchmarks (IMB)](https://github.com/intel/mpi-benchmarks), built with OpenMPI and GCC. All runs are performed on two cluster compute nodes, one MPI process per node.

Point-to-point performance is measured with the OSU `osu_bw` and `osu_latency` benchmarks, as well as the IMB MPI-1 `PingPong` benchmark.

Collective performance is measured with the OSU `osu_alltoall` and `osu_allreduce` benchmarks, as well as the IMB MPI-1 `AllReduce` benchmark.

## Method

All performance tests run under the following base software:

* Juju 3.6.3
* Ubuntu 24.04
* ReFrame 4.7.4

> on a Charmed HPC cluster deployed on Microsoft Azure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on a Charmed HPC cluster deployed on Microsoft Azure, with the following specifications:
```

`nfs-share-server`, 1x `Standard_D2as_v6`, nfs-server-proxy, edge, 21
:::

Where no specific VM features are required, VM instances are `Standard_D2as_v6`, the default size for Juju 3.6.3.

### Tesla T4 GPU - `Standard_NC4as_T4_v3` instances

GPU tests are built with the following Ubuntu software package:

* `nvidia-cuda-toolkit_12.0.140~12.0.1-4build4`

> Runs are performed on a single [`Standard_NC4as_T4_v3`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/sizes/gpu-accelerated/ncast4v3-series) instance, equipped with an NVIDIA Tesla T4 and deployed and deployed as Juju application `nc4as-t4-v3` as described in the [table above](#performance-cluster).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Runs are performed on a single [`Standard_NC4as_T4_v3`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/sizes/gpu-accelerated/ncast4v3-series) instance, equipped with an NVIDIA Tesla T4 and deployed as Juju application `nc4as-t4-v3` as described in the [table above](#performance-cluster).
```

### HDR InfiniBand - `Standard_HB120rs_v3` instances

MPI tests are built and run with the following Ubuntu software packages:

* `openmpi-bin_4.1.6-7ubuntu2`
* `libopenmpi-dev_4.1.6-7ubuntu2`
* `gcc-13_13.3.0-6ubuntu2~24.04`

Runs are performed on two [`Standard_HB120rs_v3`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/sizes/high-performance-compute/hbv3-series) instances, equipped with 200 Gb/s HDR InfiniBand and deployed as Juju application `hb120rs-v3` as described in the [table above](#performance-cluster).

## Results

The results presented are the best performance achieved by the corresponding metric across all tests.

:::{csv-table}
:header: >
: metric, VM size, result, unit, note

Tesla T4 single precision, 1x `Standard_NC4as_T4_v3`, 4454, Gflops/s,
Tesla T4 double precision, 1x `Standard_NC4as_T4_v3`, 252, Gflops/s,

> InfiniBand latency, 2x `Standard_HB120rs_v3`, 1.59, us, 1 byte transfer size

Reviewer: Is the unit here microseconds? I'm not familiar with us as a unit.

Author: Yep, microseconds or μs. The outputs for the benchmark applications give results in us (OSU) or usec (IMB), presumably to avoid the need for the unicode μ character.

Reviewer: Since the applications use it, we'll keep it in unless we notice any confusion from others.
